## Azure Databricks Demo
This projects utilizes data hosted on Azure Databricks and the build in SQL editor to perform powerful analysis of multiple data tables within a database. In this demonstration I have imported two datasets from Kaggle which cover video game revenue and video game rankings. These csv files are located within this repository. I then used the Azure SQL editor to perform some analysis of this data through complex queries assisted by Azure's build in generative AI. This was to get an intuition on how to use these tools and assess how good the functionality of these Azure services were. Moreover, this project gave me better intuition for how SQL queries can be used at scale to answer complex questions:

The question I wanted to answer going into this project was the relationship between User Scoring and Critic Scoring. Specifically, which was a better predictor of sales. In this example I used North American sales as a proxy for scoring accuracy. The entry assumption here is that a poorly reviewed game will do poorly in the market as directly related to the actual quality of the game itself. As someone who plays video games, I find myself trusting user scores more often than not. In my mind, I have an inherent suspicion of Video Game Critics because I feel that industry has monetized the review process and so there is an element of bias where the individual user is, on average, giving their most genuine assesment of the product. To that end, I expected user score to be a better predictor of sales revenue. I also expected there to be deviant games which had a high user score and low critic score that ended up doing well in sales. These products for which the fan base may be fiercly dedicated to the intellectual property or have ammassed a 'cult following' of sorts. Below are some screenshots of the Azure UI and the queries used to assess this question:

